Crypto App

Blockchain is one of the fastest moving industries today. Out of all the different fields within blockchain, NFTs have arguably received the most attention over the past year. So many celebrities have jumped on the NFT train this year that it is difficult to keep track of them. This app allows for you to quickly and easily browse through the different NFTs held in the ethereum wallets of a number of different well-known names.

I utilized the final project in the React module at the coding school that I am currently attending to explore deeper into this field which fascinates me. For this project I used Moralis in order to query the ethereum blockchain and retrieve the NFTs as well as ethereum and ERC20 token balances.

An NFT is essentially code that is written to a blockchain which points to something else. By owning an NFT one may verify that they are in fact the owner of that particular piece of property, as it is written to the blockchain and therefore verifiable and immutable. In the past year or so there has been a lot of hype regarding NFTs with many big names and corporations having entered the space. Naturally this has brought nefarious actors along with it. Anyone can download the image file itself of any given NFT, but it does not make this person the owner of this NFT. It is also easily possible to mint your own NFTs which of course is common as people are either exploring the technology or are attempting to make some quick cash. This is also a problem because it allows for aforementioned nefarious actors to mint an NFT which points to a copied image file of a well-known NFT collection. There are also many cases of "Rug Pulls" in which aggressive marketing tactics are used to convince people to buy a particular NFT collection or coin, promising value for the buyers, and then all of a sudden taking all the money and leaving the buyers with an NFT worth nothing. This space, in its infancy, is rife with opportunities to make money, but also with opportunities to lose money. Crypto is arguably the riskiest asset class of today and this risk is the price that one pays to make returns on investments which are asymmetrical to other investment opportunities.

Even within the legitimate NFT collections it is seemingly common practice for the owners of the NFT collections to purchase their own NFTs in order to artificially inflate the price of the other NFTs in their collection. Even Melania Trump is suspected of having done this as an anonymous buyer paid $$$$$$$$$$$$ AMOUNT $$$$$$$$$$$ in ether for an NFT, and it was likely Melania herself. This is not illegal but it is certainly quite shady at best.

It was not clear to me upon beginning this project that roughly 80% of NFTs are currently fake or scams. It is easy to see evidence of this while exploring the NFTs held by the celebrity wallets. Many NFTs are simply sent to these wallets in order to market the individual NFT collections. I had suspected this in the beginning and this was confirmed once I utilized the OpenSea plugin to the Moralis SDK to fetch further data pertaining to each NFT. The price of many of these NFTs were missing because the owner of the wallets had never actually paid for the NFTs, they were simply sent to the wallets unrequested.

Another issue with NFTs is that they are highly centralized on OpenSea. It is recently estimated that 97% of NFT transaction volume is through this platform.

One of the biggest challenges I faced when coding this project was the task of improperly stored data on the blockchain. Anyone is able to mint an NFT, but there are many who fail to do so properly, not storing a metadata object with the NFT is one example.

I first use the Moralis SDK to retrieve an object with several different key value pairs, namely blank blank and blank. I then take the results array and store each of these NFTs in state. Each page contains 500 NFTs so I must again fetch the remaining NFTs and append them to my state array of NFT objects.

Once stored in state I utilize the React Paginate component in order to display 20 NFTs per page. From here I render the individual NFT cards which requires me to attempt to fix any improperly stored data. For those NFTs with no metadata, I use the token_uri attribute to attempt to retrieve the metadata myself by fetching it from the provided address. The useVerifyMetadata hook, which I borrow from Moralis handles this issue by fetching the data for me and writing it to the metadata key of the NFT. If the data is not there, it replaces the metadata with a reactive object which updates when the data becomes available

The best practice for the storage of this data is using IPFS, or the Inter-Planetary File System. This is a decentralized internet protocol which uses a distributed network of computers to host data. Data hosted using traditional HTTP is not preferable due to the nature of the protocol which requires it to be maintained on centralized servers. Today's browsers do not support ipfs, therefore it is necessary to redirect to a gateway in order to access the required data. An example of this is "https://gateway.ipfs.io/ipfs/". The number param which come after the / point to the location of the stored data.

I had utilized the OpenSea plugin to the Moralis SDK to fetch further data from OpenSea upon a click event attached to each NFT card. Unfortunately at this moment it is not functioning due to the OpenSea API itself having further restricted access to the free API. It is currently very difficult to receive a key for the OpenSea API so I am therefore confined to the tools I have available.

There are many more features that I would like to implement in the future, time permitting. A crypto news page and a crypto market price aggregator using the coingecko api are two examples.

\***\*\*\*\*\*\*** Portfolio Text\***\*\*\*\*\*\*\***

In my childhood I played a lot of video games. I enjoyed the challenge of formulating and adapting different strategies in order to be successful playing them. Today I feel a similar enjoyment when writing code.The same satisfaction I used to receive upon success in a video game I now feel when writing successful code.

Balance is very important to me. In order to keep a clear mind I meditate one hour each day and maintain a healthy body by managing my nutrition and exercise by lifting weights and doing yoga. I also aim to walk each day in order to stay healthy. These habits provide me with the energy required to focus every day.

Traveling to experience other cultures and to see new things has always been a motivation for me. I enjoy hiking and the nature of each country that I travel to. In my previous career I worked as a tour guide doing seasonal trips across the United States. During the season I drove groups of tourists and guided them through National Parks and cities throughout the U.S. During the off-season I spent my time traveling in Mexico, India, and Southeast Asia. This has given me a diverse perspective of the world and I am incredibly thankful for the opportunity to have these experiences.
